Imagine the scene: It’s nighttime.
You’re in the garden of Gethsemane
with your close friends and beloved Teacher.
Suddenly, you hear a crowd coming.
They’re being led by a man you know,
Judas Iscariot.
He approaches Jesus
and kisses him on the cheek.
He then steps aside
as men move in to arrest Jesus.
Your emotions churn inside you.
Your Master and Lord is being arrested
—the Son of God.
How can this be happening?
What do you do?
Before you can even decide what to do,
Peter draws his sword
and chops off the ear
of the slave of the high priest.
Then Jesus says to Peter:
“Return your sword to its place,
for all those who take up the sword
will perish by the sword.”
And then you watch the unbelievable,
as Jesus heals the man’s ear.
Peter must have thought
that it was a great and noble thing
to fight on behalf of the Son of God.
But Jesus didn’t think so.
With six words
—“return your sword to its place”—
Jesus taught his disciples
an important lesson.
This was not their fight;
nor was it the time to fight.
So in this talk,
we’re going to focus our attention
on an insidious way
that any of us, like Peter,
can become inadvertently involved
in this world’s conflicts
without even realizing it.
And we will talk about how we
can avoid making that serious mistake.
But first,
let’s discuss why Jesus
did not ask his Father
to send “12 legions of angels”
to help him when being arrested.
It has to do with Jesus’ name.
So please open your Bible
to Isaiah chapter 9,
and let’s read verse 6
—Isaiah 9:6.
Now, we know Jesus has many titles,
but in this verse,
we’re going to focus on just one.
Verse 6:
“For a child has been born to us,
“a son has been given to us;
“and the rulership will rest on his shoulder.
“His name will be called Wonderful Counselor,
“Mighty God, Eternal Father,
Prince of Peace.”
Why is Jesus called “Prince of Peace”?
Well, consider what Jehovah’s angel
declared to the shepherds in the field
at Jesus’ birth at Luke 2:14.
They said:
“Glory in the heights above to God,
and on earth peace among men of goodwill.”
How appropriate for the angels to announce
that at the birth
of the destined Prince of Peace,
there would be divine peace
for those who have God’s goodwill!
But when will this become a reality?
It didn’t happen when Jesus was on earth,
and we certainly don’t see peace today.
Instead of peace, what do we see?
We see the nations that are locked
in hostilities and aggression
in a competition for world dominance.
We see global violence and bloodshed.
But please don’t lose heart.
Because we don’t see peace now
does not mean it’s not coming.
Isaiah 9:6
—it’s not just wishful thinking.
It’s a promise from Almighty God,
and Jehovah cannot lie.
All his prophecies come true.
In fact,
let’s read the last portion of verse 7
in Isaiah chapter 9.
The last verse
(the last portion of verse 7) says:
“The zeal of Jehovah of armies will do this.”
What does that mean?
It means that Jehovah
does nothing in a half-hearted way.
He’s zealous to bring peace, and he will.
We can be sure
that whatever Jehovah promises,
he will fully accomplish.
So how will peace come to the earth?
Did the Prince of Peace give us a clue?
Yes, he did.
In fact, the key to everlasting peace
is on the lips of millions of people
throughout the world.
They know it by heart.
But let’s read it at Matthew 6:9, 10
—Matthew 6:9.
What a beautiful thought for us!
This is how everlasting peace
is going to come through.
It depends on the fulfillment
of these verses.
Verse 9:
“You must pray, then, this way:
‘Our Father in the heavens,
let your name [the name Jehovah]
be sanctified.’”
The emphasis that we place
on the name of God
is not merely a matter
of religious knowledge.
Everyone must know God’s name
and treat it as something holy and respected.
It has to be something sacred.
It must be cleared of all the reproach
that has been heaped upon it.
In fact, the well-being
of the entire universe and its inhabitants
depends upon the sanctification
of Jehovah’s name.
Now, let’s look at verse 10:
“Let your Kingdom come.
Let your will take place,
as in heaven, also on earth.”
God’s Kingdom
—two words but so important.
is the most powerful government
humanity will ever see.
There is no nation or empire
that can withstand
the might of God’s Kingdom.
And any nation who thinks
they can block the coming of God’s Kingdom
is like an ant who plants itself firmly
on the railroad track
and with his hand raised defiantly
shouts to the oncoming locomotive:
“Stop! You can’t run over me.”
Well, God’s heavenly government has the power
to destroy all present-day violent regimes.
They’re like ants to Jehovah.
And he will eliminate their ability
to wage war, to foment conflict,
and to shed blood.
So, yes, Matthew 6:9, 10
—it’s that valuable and important
for lasting peace.
God’s Kingdom is the only road
to lasting peace.
And in his role as King,
Revelation 19:15 describes Jesus
as ‘striking the nations with an iron rod.’
Soon, Jehovah will give
the command to his Son,
and he will destroy
all the things that disrupt peace.
Gone will be the terror
that we have grown accustomed to living with
day in and day out.
So, what will happen next?
This is what will happen
—Psalm 37:10, 11.
Let’s open our Bibles here
to Psalm 37:10, 11,
and just allow this prophecy to absorb
and to thrill our minds and our hearts
and give us a hope for the future.
Verse 10 of Psalm 37:
“Just a little while longer,
“and the wicked will be no more
[a little while longer];
you will look at where they were,
and they will not be there.”
“Just a little while longer.”
It’s just like children saying
to their parents
when going on a trip
“Are we there yet?”
and the parents say
“Just a little while longer.”
And that brings comfort to them,
and it’s the same with us.
So imagine that!
This means you go into the streets,
you’re looking for a wicked person,
and you will not be able to find even one.
“The wicked will be no more.”
“But the meek will possess the earth.”
That’s what we’re speaking about in verse 11.
Let’s read that:
“But the meek will possess the earth,
and they will find exquisite delight
in the abundance of peace.”
We love reading that.
Men will be at peace.
They will be at peace with themselves,
with their neighbors, with their God.
How does that sound to you?
Meditate on that.
Can you see yourself there
in a peaceful new world
where the only news to tune into
is regarding who’s getting resurrected today
or which new person you will be assigned
to teach about Jehovah?
Can you imagine the joy
of studying with a person,
not just from a different culture,
but from a different time period,
seeing things through their eyes
as they come to love Jehovah as you do?
Well, soon the Prince of Peace
will turn this world
into one of sheer delight
—no more borders,
no more threats, no more worries—
just an abundance of peace
with your brothers and sisters.
Do you want to be there?
Me too.
So how can we show our loyal support
for the Prince of Peace?
Please watch the following video,
and notice the different ways
we can do this right now.
“I am no part of the world.”
But is the world a part of me?
I’m pressured every day
to get involved in political issues
that affect me socially,
. . . environmentally,
. . . and economically.
That pressure could rob me
of my peace of mind
. . . and influence how I think.
I could take sides in my heart,
even if I’m not aware of it.
But I know that Jehovah
will care for all of mankind’s concerns
. . . by means of his Kingdom
ruled by his Son, Jesus Christ.
I show my support for him
in my prayers,
. . . in how I think and feel,
. . . and by teaching others
what the Kingdom will do for mankind.
I know there are millions
of brothers and sisters
all over the world
. . . who loyally support
the “Prince of Peace”
just like me, because I
. . . I
. . . I am no part of the world.
So, what takes away the peace
in the country where you live?
in your community?
in your town? in your society?
Most likely,
it’s the hot-button social issues.
Did you notice
how our two brothers and sister
showed their loyal support
for the Prince of Peace?
What issues affected them?
Unfair tax hikes, blatant injustice,
a disregard of the environment
—all things in themselves seemed
like noble causes worthy to get involved.
‘How can they get away with this?
It’s not right.
We should do something.’
Does that sound familiar?
We may not have a literal sword in our hand,
but we all have our Peterlike moments.
And if we’re not careful,
issues that are close to our heart
can charge our emotions
and we can lose our spiritual balance.
So, what can help us
when we see things that are wrong?
Remember what the Prince of Peace
said to Peter
in that highly charged moment:
“Return your sword to its place.”
In other words, this is not your fight.
So, what do we do?
We do something far better than fight.
We preach.
Each time that we share the Kingdom news,
we proclaim our support for Jesus’ rule.
But here’s the thing:
If we truly believe
in the good news of the Kingdom,
we will not do anything
that hinders our ability to tell it.
Once again, it’s so important
that if we truly believe
in the good news of the Kingdom,
we will not do anything
that hinders our ability to tell it.
Why?
Well, let’s find out.
Let’s open up to Peter’s words himself
at 1 Peter 2:12
—1 Peter 2:12.
Peter helps us here with why we need
to maintain our conduct properly.
First Peter 2:12:
“Maintain your conduct fine
among the nations,
“so that when they accuse you
of being wrongdoers,
“they may be eyewitnesses
of your fine works
and, as a result,
glorify God in the day of his inspection.”
So Peter had to learn this.
But do we see the connection?
Our actions and words
are directly linked to Jehovah.
When people see us,
they see a people that worships Jehovah.
And when people hear us,
they hear a people that worships Jehovah.
Imagine how our freeness of speech
to speak about God’s Kingdom
would be hindered if we were to voice
a position for a political issue!
And it can happen so easily.
It can happen at work, at school,
with relatives, and so forth.
Satan sets the trap masterfully.
He’s just waiting.
If he could only make us
“chop off the ear” of anything in this world
that causes hurt and indignation in our heart
or if he can hook our heartstrings
by getting us emotionally charged,
he can then step back and reel us in.
The new world, our hope for true peace,
all starts to fade into the background.
Don’t give him that chance!
Be determined to do
what Titus 3:1, 2 tells us.
Let’s read that
—Titus chapter 3,
verses 1 and 2.
Here is the Scriptural admonition:
“Continue reminding them to be in subjection
“and to be obedient
to governments and authorities,
“to be ready for every good work,
“to speak injuriously of no one,
not to be quarrelsome,
but to be reasonable,
displaying all mildness toward all men.”
‘Be in subjection
and be obedient
to governments and authorities.’
Well, now let’s break that down.
In practical terms, what does it mean?
It means to obey the laws of the land
and pay taxes,
to not speak negatively
about the superior authorities,
and to be careful not to take sides
on political issues
(not even in our hearts).
Do you remember
that expression from the video?
“I am no part of the world.
But is the world a part of me?”
Of course,
when we find ourselves
between Caesar’s law and God’s law,
we know what to do.
We apply Acts 5:29
and “obey God as ruler rather than men.”
We know that.
But like Jesus, who healed the ear
of the armed guard Malchus,
we’re determined to react with mildness
when provoked by an injustice
or cruelty in this world.
In conclusion,
we have the indescribable privilege
to honor the Prince of Peace.
And how reassuring it is to know
that Jesus understands our feelings!
He understands our emotions
when we see things that we know are wrong.
He knows these things hurt our heart.
We just want to make things right.
But remember the critical lesson
he taught his apostles
in the garden of Gethsemane:
This is not your fight.
Rather, Jehovah, the King of Eternity,
and Jesus, the Prince of Peace,
are telling us:
“This is our fight. Leave it in our hands.”
Soon, the prophecy at Isaiah 9:6, 7
will be fulfilled completely.
In the meantime,
keep preaching about the Kingdom.
Avoid saying or doing anything
that suggests taking sides
on a political issue.
Don’t allow yourself to “chop off the ear”
of the injustices and the causes of conflict
of this old world.
Peter tried that, but it didn’t work.
He learned a big lesson
that day in the garden,
and he never forgot it.
May we never forget it either.
Now is the time to show
your active and loyal support
for the Prince of Peace
as we echo Peter’s words at 2 Peter 3:14
and “do [our] utmost to be found finally
by [Jehovah and the Prince of Peace]
spotless and unblemished and in peace.”